# Aplication-of-neural-networks-in-the-short-term-forecast-of-operation-of-run-off-hydro-power-plants

Topic of this paper is examination of utility of artificial neural networks in the process of producing electricity on the basis of data of the average output power in small hydropower plant Kraljušica 1 nd Kraljuščica 2 (Konjic, Bosnia and Herzegovina) and weather forecast for rainfall in the period from February 5th at 12 pm to April 11th at 10 am in 2019. On the basis of this data the output power of this small hydropower plant is predicted 24 hours ahead. In second chapter primary characteristics of small hydropower plants and primary characteristics of small hydropower plants Kraljušica 1 and Kraljušica 2 are explained. In third chapter of this paper basic concepts of the artificial intelligence are described, and the way of artificial neuron networks functioning is described aswell. In fourth chapter hydrological systems are described and the method of usage of artificial neural networks in hydrological systems. In fifth chapter the results of tests of time series models with two used structures of artificial neural network, NARX and NAR and Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm for training of artificial neural networks are shown. Bayesian algorithm is briefly analyzed aswell. The analysis determined that the NAR structure produces better results and that there is potential in using artificial neural networks in the process of producing electricity. These tests were done by MATLAB's tools for testing artificial neural networks.
